<div align="center">
  <a href="https://gpssample.org">
    <picture>
      <img alt="GPSSample logo" src="images/gpssample.png" height="128">
    </picture>
  </a>
  <h1>GPSSample</h1>
</div>

## About

**What is GPSSample App?**

GPSSample is an Android-based mobile application to facilitate rapid
statistical sampling and navigation back to selected locations in the
field when conducting household surveys and rapid assessments. The app
is designed to streamline the enumeration and statistical sampling
process and can be used in areas with limited internet and cell phone
connectivity.

**Why now**: This is a critical global gap. The recommends that routine
immunization coverage surveys use probability sampling methods and
generally use census data derived from enumeration areas as the sampling
frame. *Existing process: *As many countries lack up-to-date population
sampling frames, teams are often sent to map and list households (HHs)
in enumeration areas using a set of devices. Upon returning to an area
with wifi, data from each device must be uploaded to a server, collated,
and reviewed to ensure that no sections of the enumeration areas were
missed during mapping. Once the sampling frame is verified, a sample of
HHs can be drawn and another team is deployed to navigate to selected
HHs to conduct the coverage survey. *Improved process: *By streamlining
this enumeration, statistical sampling, and survey process into a single
field visit, GPSSample can substantially reduce time and costs
associated with conducting coverage surveys, which has broad benefits to
ministries of health and public health partners. In GPSSample, teams can
collect data used in providing services to the most vulnerable
populations such as locations of health facilities and vaccination
points and missing villages in hard-to-reach places that are often
overlooked in microplanning efforts for immunization services.

**Tiered roles: **

- The **Admin** sets up the configuration for an area, study questions,
  and defines sampling design

- The **Supervisor** defines teams, manages field work, selects sample,
  reviews data from listing and from survey

- The **Enumerator** maps and lists households, collects points of
  interest, syncs data with supervisor

- The **Data Collector** navigates back to selected sample, and
  completes the longer survey

**Selected Use Cases:**

1.  **HH surveys: **A district-level HH malaria survey is planned to
    estimate malaria prevalence with two strata: urban and rural
    clusters. 10 HHs will be selected in each urban cluster and 14 HHs
    will be selected each rural cluster. High precision is required as
    the country is approaching elimination. GPSSample is used to map HHs
    in clusters and capture structure eligibility for the HH survey and
    for an upcoming indoor residual spraying (IRS) campaign in the app.
    Three teams working in a cluster sync data with their field
    supervisor who draws the sample in GPSSample the same day listing
    finishes. In GPSSample, teams use points of interest and HH listing
    details just collected to navigate to HHs selected for the HH
    survey. A month later, IRS teams use IRS eligibility data to ensure
    all eligible HHs have been visited.

2.  **Zero dose children: **Children missing the first dose of
    diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTP) containing vaccine (“zero
    dose”) account for an estimated 50% of vaccine-preventable deaths.
    Zero dose children are challenging to identify since they often
    reside in urban areas, remote communities, or conflict-affected
    areas, where population estimates are unreliable. By offering the
    ability to rapidly conduct enumeration and mapping of targeted
    areas, GPSSample provides a valuable solution for identifying zero
    dose. Through HH listing, GPS coordinates and contextual information
    can be collected, ensuring precise HH location and incorporating
    details into digital catchment maps. In conflict zones with
    restricted team mobility, satellite imagery and mapathons are used
    to identify inhabited structures. Once structures are identified,
    teams can safely conduct HH listing to gather information on zero
    dose individuals. GPSSample streamlines the zero-dose listing
    process, enhances mapping, and facilitates effective offline
    navigation to efficiently verify vaccination status and administer
    vaccines to those HHs.

**Your use case: **What are your ideal use cases for GPSSample? Please
reach out and let us know!

**Technical Specifications:** Android 8+ mobile app, handshakes with
existing survey tool – ODK (ex), uses Mapbox basemaps, QR code data
transfer, data export to local device, encrypted

**Sampling Methods: **Simple random sample, cluster-based sample

**Advantages:** Open Source, designed for use in low resource settings,
can add clusters or draw them, leverages existing data

## Documentation

## Installing and running GPSSample

## Development Environment

## Contributing

## Community

## Code of Conduct

## License

## Security
